The aim of the project is to create an experiment based on the article by Berlucchi and al., 1971, "Simple reaction times of  ipsilateral and contralateral hand to lateralized visual stimuli". 

As in the original study, the aim of the experiment is to check if "visuomotor reactions are crucially dependent on a pathway joining the visual cortex to the motor cortex and if the callosal connexions of the visual cortex play a major role in the interhemispheric mediation of crossed reactions." 

Based on this goal, my code allows one to gather the relevant data to test the two following hypothesis that stem from the previous statements in paranthesis (if the two hypothesis are true, the statements are true) : -"crossed reactions should be longer than uncrossed ones: the right hand should react faster to stimuli presented in the right visual field and the left hand should react faster to stimuli presented in the left visual field". (1)
-regarding the callosal connections, "one would expect that the difference between crossed and uncrossed reactions should be definitely greater when the stimulus is presented at some distance from the vertical meridian and thus is projected to points in the visual cortex devoid of direct callosal connexions." (2)

To concretely gather the data necessary to answer the two previous hypothesis, the coded experiment is constituted of two blocks : the first that the participant must execute using his right hand, and the second that the participant must execute using his left hand. The hand used is recorded as experimental data. This differentiation allows us to meet the conditions of hypothesis (1) and (2), regarding the variation of hand used. There is no other difference between the two blocks. The participant is also told to close his left eye (the hypothesis imply that we test the visual field, defined for one eye at a time) and to position himself at approximatively 50cm of the screen during the whole experiment (the dimensions of the stimuli are calculated to be optimal at this distance, following the criteria of the original study).

Each block is composed of 6 different trials repeated 5 times, which makes 30 trials per block. Each trial is composed of a single stimulus, a white little square (the blanckscreen is black during the whole experiment) that appears at a random time between 2 and 3 seconds. As soon as the square appears, the participant must press a button (the space bar for example) as fast as he can using the relevant hand (given the block) : his reaction time is stored as experimental data. If the participant fails to press the button before 400ms (I took this limit from the article), the next trial is loaded. The square also disappears after 32ms (condition from the original experiment) but the participant can still press the button until 400ms

The only difference between each trial is the horizontal position of the square, which varies randomly for each trial (its vertical position always remains 0). The position of the square is stored as experimental data. 6 different horizontal positions are possible, hence 6 different trials (the horizontal positions used respect in proportion the ones used in the original study) : in px, [(50,0), (200,0), (300, 0), (-50, 0), (-200,0), (-300, 0)].

Two things matter about these horizontal positions : -to answer (1), we only care about the side of the screen in which the stimulus appeared (right side of the screen if horizontal coordinate positive, left side of the screen if negative)
-to answer (2), the further the stimulus is located from the vertical meridian of the screen, the longer the reaction time is censed to be, thus we care about the precised position of the stimulus (on must note that the effects of the two hypotheses can combine so if the participant is using his right hand, the mean reaction time should be the longest for the stimulus that appears at the extreme left of the screen)      

Concretely, the experiment starts by presenting the general instructions to the participant (goal of the experiment, left eye closed, etc ..). Then the first block (right hand) starts with each different possible position appearing 5 times (so we have enough data to calcultate a precised mean reaction time for each position given the hand used), following all the features mentioned above. Then the second block starts (left hand) and the experiment is done

As the position of the stimulus, hand used, and reaction time of the participants are stored (the data appear in a file that is automatically created after one participant executes the experiment), one can determine if the mean reaction time is indeed greater in the impaired hand condition (right hand used, stimulus on the left side of the screen for example) than in the paired hand condition (e.g. right hand used, stimulus on the right side of the screen), which allows one to test hypothesis (1). And one can determine if the mean reaction time is greater in the impaired hand condition with a stimulus located at the extreme impaired side (e.g. right hand used, stimulus on the extreme left of the screen) than in impaired hand condition with a stimulus located near the vertical meridian (e.g. right hand used, stimulus on the left side of the screen but close to the vertical meridian) and than in paired hand conditions for the same stimuli locations, which allows one to test the hypothesis (2). 

I did not compute the above mentioned data to determine if the hypothesis are true or false.

There is no particulary condition to execute the coded experiment (one needs to have python and the libraries expyriment and random). 

